NMS-13707: Added docs for Flow Thresholding (#4156)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/flows/thresholding.adoc

[[ga-flow-support-data-collection]]

> = Thresholding Flow applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Thresholding flow applications
```

Flows are categorized in applications using the <<flows/classification-engine.adoc#ga-flow-support-classification-engine, Classification Engine>>.

> OpenNMS supports to sum up bytesIn/bytesOut data of flow records based on these Flow applications.

Reviewer: OpenNMS supports summing up the bytesIn/bytesOut data of flow records based on these flow applications.

> OpenNMS supports summing up the bytesIn/bytesOut data of flow records based on these flow applications.

Reviewer 2: The overview can explain a bit more what someone needs to do to enable application thresholding. Is application data collection required or does thresholding works also without the data collection?

> OpenNMS supports summing up the bytesIn/bytesOut data of flow records based on these flow applications.

Author: Another level in the hierarchy makes no sense to me. For the other comment, I added sentences to each of the two documents, that data collection does not require thresholding and vice versa.

> Users can define thresholds on this data to generate alarms in the case the amount of traffic violates these thresholds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can define thresholds on this data to generate alarms when the amount of traffic violates these thresholds.
```

> == Configure thresholding for Flow applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure thresholding for flow applications
```

> In order to enable thresholding for Flows you need to enable the flag `applicationThresholding` in the adapter's definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable thresholding for flows you need to enable the `applicationThresholding` flag in the adapter's definition.
```

            <package name="Netflow-9-Default">
                <rrd step="300">
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:1:2016</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:12:1488</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:AVERAGE:0.5:288:366</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:MAX:0.5:288:366</rra>
                    <rra>RRA:MIN:0.5:288:366</rra>
                </rrd>
            </package>
        </adapter>
    </queue>
...
----

Next, you need an additional package definition in your `threshd-configuration.xml` file.

.Example of a package definition in the threshd-configuration.xml
[source, xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<threshd-configuration threads="5">
...
    <package name="flow-thresholding">
        <filter>IPADDR != '0.0.0.0'</filter>
        <include-range begin="1.1.1.1" end="254.254.254.254"/>
        <include-range begin="::1" end="ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff"/>
        <service name="Flow-Threshold" interval="300000" user-defined="false" status="on">
            <parameter key="thresholding-group" value="flow-thresholding-group"/>
        </service>
    </package>
...
</threshd-configuration>
----

> Finally, you define the thresholds in the `thresholds.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, define the thresholds in the `thresholds.xml` file.
```

> Use need to use `flowApp` for the `ds-type`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `flowApp` for the `ds-type`.
```

== Configure thresholding for flow applications

To enable thresholding for flows you need to enable the `applicationThresholding` flag in the adapter's definition.

> Please note, that thresholding on flow applications also works without enabling data collection on flow applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that thresholding on flow applications also works without enabling data collection on flow applications.
```
